Solutions:
puzzle_key = 049677629
puzzle_misspell = "tysxnt"

The intended word was supposed to be tryant and the quote is from Brandon Sanderson, Mistborn: The Final Empire

I solved the puzzle using:
Python’s multiprocessing module (Pool, cpu_count) to distribute key search across cores.
Python hashlib for computing sha256(KEY + word) hashes.
pandas to help organize and inspect intermediate results.
functools.partial to build compact worker functions for parallel search.
Custom string utilities to generate all strings at Levenshtein edit distance 1 and 2 from a base word.
A Kaggle English word list of about 200,000 entries as the main dictionary.

How I found the key:
1. Key assumptions: The hidden text was likely natural English, so it should contain common stop words like “the.”
2. I wrote a script that iterates through all 9-digit keys and, for each key, checks whether sha256(KEY + "the") matches any of the hashes in PUZZLE.txt.
3. I split the 0–999,999,999 range into chunks and used multiprocessing.Pool to have multiple processes test different key ranges in parallel across 14 cores.
4. The parallel search returned a unique match, identifying the correct key as: 049677629 

Decoding:
I loaded the ~200k-word Kaggle dictionary and, for each word, computed sha256(KEY + word) and stored the mapping from hash → word. By scanning through PUZZLE.txt and looking up each hash in this map, I recovered most of the words in the message. Some entries still could not be decoded.
However, I noticed that many missing words were actually words plus punctuation (e.g., "word.", "word,") that weren’t present in the plain dictionary. After I accounted for punctuation variants, coverage improved, but there were still a few gaps.
The partially recognized passage was searchable online so I did so and found its origin. At that point I had the full, correct English text available for comparison. After aligning the decoded text with the original quote, the problematic spot corresponded to the word “tyrant.” in the original passage. 
